# Provide a translation for this mod

So how to translate this mod ?

Before we start I assume that you:

- have an account on [Github](https://github.com/)
- know how to use both [Git](https://git-scm.com/) and Github
- [forked](https://docs.github.com/fr/get-started/quickstart/fork-a-repo) this repo
- created a new [branch](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/using-branches#:~:text=In%20Git%2C%20branches%20are%20a,branch%20to%20encapsulate%20your%20changes.)
e.g. for French `translate/fr-fr`
- made your [changes](https://www.atlassian.com/git/tutorials/saving-changes/git-commit) over there
- opened a [pull request](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/proposing-changes-to-your-work-with-pull-requests/about-pull-requests) once finished (or a [draft pull request](https://github.blog/2019-02-14-introducing-draft-pull-requests/) if it's not but you would like to review it together first).

## Onscreens

⚙️ _ArchiveXL_

The first file to translate is [archive/source/raw/addicted/localization/en-us.json.json](https://github.com/cyb3rpsych0s1s/4ddicted/blob/beta-0.9.4/archive/source/raw/addicted/localization/en-us.json.json).

> contains all the native texts displayed in UI.

1. duplicate it alongside and name it by your locale (available locales [can be found there](https://github.com/psiberx/cp2077-codeware/wiki/Localization-System)).
   - e.g. for French, rename it into: `fr-fr.json.json`.
   - filename contains `.json` twice when exported from WolvenKit, leave it this way.
2. translate every `femaleVariant` into your own language:
   - if your language has gender-based variants, do not omit to translate `maleVariant` too.
   - when the sentence is not gender-based, simply specify `femaleVariant` and let `maleVariant` empty (`femaleVariant` is the default fallback when `maleVariant` is left unspecified).

Then, update [archive/source/resources/Addicted.archive.xl](https://github.com/cyb3rpsych0s1s/4ddicted/blob/beta-0.9.4/archive/source/resources/Addicted.archive.xl) to add the file you previously created.

e.g. for French:

```yml
localization:
  onscreens:
    en-us: addicted\localization\en-us.json
    fr-fr: addicted\localization\fr-fr.json # add this line
```

## Subtitles

⚙️ _Codeware_

The second file to translate is located under [scripts/Addicted/i18n/English.reds](https://github.com/cyb3rpsych0s1s/4ddicted/blob/beta-0.9.4/scripts/Addicted/i18n/English.reds).

> contains all the subtitles for voiced dialog lines.

⚠️ you only need to translate the rightmost part of `this.Subtitle(...)`, leaving the leftmost untouched.

Also rename the class by your own language.

e.g. for French:

```swift
module Addicted.Localization
import Codeware.Localization.*

public class French extends ModLocalizationPackage {

  protected func DefineSubtitles() -> Void {
   // snake case suffixes must match entries in info.json (custom sounds)
   this.Subtitle("Addicted-Voice-Subtitle-biomon", "Biomon...");
   this.Subtitle("Addicted-Voice-Subtitle-as_if_I_didnt_know_already", "Comme si j'étais pas au courant...");
   // so on and so forth ...
  }
}
```

## Vanilla voices

⚒️ WolvenKit
⚙️ _REDmod_

In the next steps we're gonna re-export some vanilla voices used.

> this mod also reuse vanilla voiced dialog lines.

1. open WolvenKit
2. locate each `.wem` file found under [archive/source/customSounds/vanilla/en-us](https://github.com/cyb3rpsych0s1s/4ddicted/blob/beta-0.9.4/archive/source/customSounds/vanilla/en-us) by its name (minus `.Wav`) in WolvenKit's **Assets browser**
3. export them all with WolvenKit's **Export** tool (_do not forget_ to set export settings to `Wav` for each file) under subfolder in [archive/source/customSounds/vanilla](https://github.com/cyb3rpsych0s1s/4ddicted/blob/beta-0.9.4/archive/source/customSounds/vanilla), named after your own language.
    - e.g. for French in `archive/source/customSounds/vanilla/fr-fr`

## AI-generated custom voices

⚒️ WolvenKit + ElevenLabs
⚙️ _REDmod_

In the next steps we're gonna train [ElevenLabs](https://beta.elevenlabs.io/) with a specific set of vanilla voices, then generate dialog for each of the subtitles previously translated.

💡 I'm aware that you might not be willing to get an account on ElevenLabs so you can also zip me all the files below once exported and let me do it on your behalf.

The custom dialog lines to translate are located under [archive/source/customSounds/en-us](https://github.com/cyb3rpsych0s1s/4ddicted/blob/beta-0.9.4/archive/source/customSounds/en-us).

> contains all the voiced custom dialog lines.

There's one folder for each of the "mood" that V might be into:

- `disheartened`: these samples are used when biomonitor already reported serious addiction symptoms to V multiple times while V is severely addict.
  > V can end up disheartened when biomonitor reports his/her condition repeatedly and (s)he has clearly crossed the line.

- `offhanded`: these samples are used when biomonitor already reported serious addiction symptoms to V multiple times while V is only notably addict.
  > V can sometimes acts offhanded when biomonitor reports his/her condition but (s)he doesn't really give a damn.

- `pestered`: these samples are used when biomonitor is dismissed by V while in combat.
  > V can obviously be pestered when biomonitor unexpectedly pops up during combat.

- `surprised`: these samples are used when biomonitor reports addiction symptoms to V only for a couple of times.
  > V can be surprised when biomonitor starts showing up from time to time.

⚠️ for example, when generating sample for `archive/source/customSounds/en-us/surprised/fem_v_coa_03.wav` under [archive/source/customSounds/en-us/surprised](https://github.com/cyb3rpsych0s1s/4ddicted/blob/beta-0.9.4/archive/source/customSounds/en-us/surprised), you should regenerate in ElevenLabs until you get the sentence pronounced as if V was surprised. Not doing so defeats the purpose of adding custom voicing.

1. make sure to have an account on [ElevenLabs](https://beta.elevenlabs.io/)
2. locate and export each of these `.wem` as previously:
  ℹ️ using same exact samples set increases chances of having more "homogeneous sounding" across different languages

    <details><summary>click to see which ones</summary>

    1. `v_scene_aaron_mccarlson_default_f_1b6ed94ce5559000`
    2. `v_scene_aaron_mccarlson_default_f_1b77e03246559000`
    3. `v_scene_benedict_mcadams_default_f_1b1b1ce0be2c5000`
    4. `v_scene_claire_default_f_1b0c1373382b6000`
    5. `v_scene_dakota_smith_defaut_f_1ad786e65246b000`
    6. `v_scene_dakota_smith_defaut_f_1b30dc13f92ef000`
    7. `v_scene_dakota_smith_defaut_f_1936caecd649d000`
    8. `v_scene_dakota_smith_defaut_f_1936cf055549d000`
    9. `v_scene_dan_default_f_1b1bed3cac29f000`
    10. `v_scene_delamain_default_f_1b3f1d1f6b386000`
    11. `v_scene_delamain_default_f_182ac718234ea000`
    12. `v_scene_dex_default_f_1b2f30a75929f000`
    13. `v_scene_dex_default_f_182ad40c364ea000`
    14. `v_scene_jackie_default_f_1b2f97e30c2c5004`
    15. `v_scene_jackie_default_f_1b2f687cef2c5000`
    16. `v_scene_jackie_default_f_1b2fa81c242c5000`
    17. `v_scene_jackie_default_f_1b2fa2734c2c5000`
    18. `v_scene_jackie_default_f_1b2fae69a12c5000`
    19. `v_scene_jackie_default_f_1b2fb2c5892c5000`
    20. `v_scene_jackie_default_f_1b2fb6a25c2c5000`
    21. `v_scene_jackie_default_f_1b2fb479f32c5000`
    22. `v_scene_jackie_default_f_1b2fc8db0d2c5000`
    23. `v_scene_jackie_default_f_1b302c10c12c5000`
    24. `v_scene_wakako_okada_default_f_1b68a843092b6000`
    25. `v_scenes_f_1a7c32d2e947a000`

    </details>

3. feed them to ElevenLabs under `VoiceLab` click on `+ Add voice`
    ⚠️ a premium membership is required (5$/month)
    - save your cloned voice, for example `Female V`
4. create a folder 
5. go to `Speech synthesis`
    - select the voice previously created
    - set `Voice settings` to:
      - `Stability`: 35%
      - `Clarity + Similarity Enhancement`: 90%
    - repeat this process for each of the subtitle:
      - generate
      - compare it with original english version
      - if it sounds good and similar in tone, save it
        e.g. if in the original audio V sounds disheartened, in your own language (s)he should sounds similar too, otherwise it will break player's immersion.
      - do not forget to place it under the same folder structure, 
      - otherwise repeat the generation process.
6. repeat same process for both male and female V
7. update [archive/source/resources/info.json](https://github.com/cyb3rpsych0s1s/4ddicted/blob/beta-0.9.4/archive/source/resources/info.json) to add one entry for each of the original one for English modified as per your locale.
  e.g. for French

    ```json
      "customSounds": [
        // e.g. this points to vanilla sound file
        {
          "name": "addicted.fr-fr.fem_v_ono_hhuh",
          "type": "mod_sfx_2d",
          "file": "vanilla/fr-fr/v_q113_f_1956c7fde04e1000.Wav",
          "gain": 1.0,
          "pitch": 0.0
        },
        // e.g. while this points to custom AI-generated file
        {
          "name": "addicted.fr-fr.fem_v_damn_thats_fucked_up",
          "type": "mod_sfx_2d",
          "file": "fr-fr/surprised/fem_v_dtfu.wav",
          "gain": 1.0,
          "pitch": 0.0
        },
        // more definitions ...
      ]
    ```
